---
layout: post
title: Singapore Day 2008 goes to Melbourne, Australia!
date: 2008-08-26
permalink: /media-centre/press-releases/singapore-day-2008-goes-to-Melbourne-Australia!
---
Singaporeans in Australia will get to enjoy a full day of fun with Singaporean sights, sounds and tastes at Singapore Day 2008 on 4 October in Melbourne, Australia, at the Sidney Myer Music Bowl. Register today at [www.singaporeday.sg](https://www.facebook.com/SingaporeDay) for entry and get a special collector’s item goodie bag!

With the theme of “Rekindle and Rediscover”, Overseas Singaporeans in Australia will get a slice of home away from home and experience the old and the new that Singapore offers. A line-up of prominent home-grown artistes such as Dick Lee, Hady Mirza, the Phua Chu Kang family, Electrico and many more will perform for their fellow Singaporeans in Australia. The attendees can also look forward to authentic culinary delights presented by hawkers specially chosen by Food Republic. A wide selection of local favourites ranging from Hainanese Chicken Rice, Char Kway Teow, Satay to Ice Kacang will be prepared and served right in the heart of Melbourne for our Overseas Singaporeans.

Singaporeans will also get to see and participate in interactive multi-media displays showcasing Singapore’s key developments amidst the backdrop of iconic Singapore skyline. They can get a first-hand glimpse of the evolving cityscape at the Marina Bay and the new downtown, transformation of familiar areas like Jurong Lake district into a new vibrant hub and new lifestyle, and recreation options in areas like Punggol and Kallang Basin. For parents, the Ministry of Education’s SEED (Strategies for Effective Engagement and Development) Classroom will allow visitors an opportunity to get a first-hand experience of the new learning environment through sample lessons conducted by teachers from Singapore. In the National Service showcase, Overseas Singaporeans will get a chance to experience the modern training and sophistication of our armed forces with the various simulators and high-tech training equipment. For Singaporeans seeking careers back home, many opportunities await them in a wide range of industries and companies will be present at the Recruitment Showcase.

“Singapore Day 2008 is a collaborative effort of the private, public and people sectors, specially put together for our Overseas Singaporeans by fellow Singaporeans, to help them (Overseas Singaporeans) stay engaged and connected with Singapore. If New York was anything to go by, it promises to be an exciting day of nostalgia, new discoveries and reunions. Indeed, it is about rekindling and rediscovering all things Singaporean. I hope fellow Singaporeans based in Australia, not just in Melbourne but also in other cities, can join us on 4 Oct 2008 for a day to remember,” said Mr. Roy Quek, Director, National Population Secretariat.

Singapore Day is an annual signature event organised by the Overseas Singaporean Unit for Overseas Singaporeans (OS). It is held in a different major city with a significant community of OS. The inaugural Singapore Day 2007 in New York attracted 6,000 attendees. Each Singapore Day is specially created for the Singaporeans in that country and aims to update them on the latest developments and various aspects of life in Singapore. There is an estimated 40,000 Singaporeans in Australia.