---
layout: post
title: Overseas Singaporeans get to play their part at Singapore Day 2009
date: 2009-03-11
permalink: /media-centre/press-releases/overseas-singaporeans-get-to-play-their-part-at-singapore-day-2009
---
Overseas Singaporeans will have a chance to “Relook, Refresh and Reconnect” at Singapore Day 2009, which will take place on 25 April 2009 at Hampton Court Palace, South West of Central London. Compared to previous Singapore Days, Overseas Singaporeans will be contributing in a larger way with performances such as the Acapella Ini, a seven-member group of university students; more than 300 Overseas Singaporeans have registered as volunteers. Overseas Singaporeans can also find out how they can play an active part in what is happening back home and contribute their services.register

With the theme of “Relook, Refresh & Reconnect”, Overseas Singaporeans will experience a slice of home through Singaporean sights, sounds and tastes. Eric Khoo is the Creative Director for Singapore Day 2009. "I want to create a happy fun-filled environment that Overseas Singaporeans could connect to - local icons re-fashioned in a pop art sort of way. And for the entertainment, I could not resist pulling in some of Singapore's finest artistes." said Eric Khoo. Overseas Singaporeans can enjoy homegrown humour by local artistes like Dim Sum Dollies, Hossan Leong, Jack Neo and blogger Mr Brown, and sway to songs by singer Rui En and Singapore Idol Taufik Batisah. Authentic local delights such as chicken rice, roti prata, char kway teow and satay will be specially prepared by hawkers chosen by Makansutra.

Visitors can also discover Singapore’s latest developments through the interactive and multi-sensory showcases. At the Marina Bay Showcase, visitors can catch a glimpse of the evolving cityscape and our vibrant offerings as a global city to live, work and play. They will be able to preview the upcoming transformation of our public housing estates, including breathtaking vistas of waterfront living at Punggol and the growing dynamism of our industries. The Ministry of Education will update on the new learning environment in Singapore. In the Tanglin Showcase, visitors will get a chance to experience our modern and sophisticated armed forces with the various simulators and high-tech training equipment.

Overseas Singaporeans can also find out how they can play an active part in what is happening back home, as well as contribute their services at the Kallang Showcase. Those who want to be part of the inaugural Singapore 2010 Youth Olympic Games can find out more on how they can contribute their services. Key Overseas Singaporean associations in the UK such as the Singapore Business Group (SBG), Singapore UK Organisation (SUKA), Singapore Creative Network UK (S.C.N.U.K), and United Kingdom Singapore Students' Council (UKSCC) will also be present to reach out to the Overseas Singaporeans. Singaporeans seeking career opportunities back home will also be able to speak to recruiting employers at the Raffles Place Showcase.

Register today at [www.SingaporeDay.sg](http://web.archive.org/web/20160318023759/https://overseassingaporean.sg/event/singapore-day) for entry and get a special collector’s item goodie bag at the event!

“Singapore Day 2009 is a collaborative effort of the private, public and people sectors, specially put together for our Overseas Singaporeans by fellow Singaporeans, to help them stay connected to home. Overseas Singaporeans will be playing a major role in the event such as the performance; they can also look out to how they can contribute back home such as the Singapore 2010 Youth Olympic Games.” said Ms Quah Ley Hoon, Director, Overseas Singaporean Unit.

Singapore Day is a signature event to engage Overseas Singaporeans and help them stay connected with one another and with Singapore. It is organised in cities with a significant number of Overseas Singaporeans. The inaugural Singapore Day held in New York in 2007 attracted 6,000 attendees, while the second in Melbourne in 2008 had 11,000 participants. There are an estimated 40,000 Singaporeans in the United Kingdom.