---
layout: post
title:  "DPM Teo Chee Hean announces Climate Change Exhibition at Prize Presentation Ceremony of National Climate Change Competition 2013"
date:   2013-11-12
permalink: "/media-centre/press-releases/dpm-teo-chee-hean-announces-climate-change-exhibition-at-prize-presentation-ceremony-of-national-climate-change-competition-2013"
---

**Singapore, 12 November 2013 –** The winners of National Climate Change Competition (NCCC) 2013 were presented with their awards this morning by Mr Teo Chee Hean, Deputy Prime Minister, Coordinating Minister for National Security and Minister for Home Affairs and Chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Climate Change.

The theme for the NCCC 2013 is "Be the Change. It Starts with You." It recognises the important role that youths play in inspiring and influencing their peers to take actions to address climate change. It is also the objective of the competition for youths to gain a better understanding of climate change, its impact and how everyone can play a part.

The NCCC 2013 attracted 214 entries from over 700 students from primary schools to tertiary institutions. The winning videos were selected based on their creativity, originality and how well they conveyed the message of climate change.

A Viewers' Choice contest was conducted separately on the National Climate Change Secretariat's (NCCS) Climate Change SG Facebook [www.facebook.com/climatechangeSG](https://www.facebook.com/ClimateChangeSG/). Members of the public were invited to cast their votes for their favourite video. The contest attracted over 900 voters, and Save Us by Yio Chu Kang Secondary School emerged as the most popular video. The list of winning videos in each of the categories is at [Annex A.](https://github.com/isomerpages/isomerpages-stratgroup/raw/master/images/Press%20Release%20images/PDFs/nccc2013_media-release_annex2.pdf)

DPM Teo also unveiled plans by the NCCS, Science Centre Singapore (SCS) and Meteorological Service Singapore (MSS) to revamp the Climate Change Exhibition at the Science Centre Singapore. The Climate Change Exhibition was first launched in May 2008.

Aimed at generating a deeper understanding of the challenges of climate change and a greater interest in the science behind climate and weather, the 5-year-old exhibition will be refreshed and expanded to include more local information and examples so as to provide better context on how Singapore will be affected by climate change. Exciting opportunities in areas related to climate change will also be featured eg. clean energy and green industries.

In his speech at the event, DPM Teo highlighted the growth opportunities for Singaporeans in areas such as climate science and the clean tech sector. He said, "As Singapore positions itself as a green growth hub, there will be exciting new options for Singaporeans to pursue studies and careers in these fields. You can be at the fore-front of climate change action, and play a part to develop solutions that benefit Singapore, and the rest of the world."

More details on the climate change exhibition are at [Annex B.](https://github.com/isomerpages/isomerpages-stratgroup/raw/master/images/Press%20Release%20images/PDFs/nccc2013_press_release_annex_b.pdf)

Issued by the [National Climate Change Secretariat](https://www.nccs.gov.sg)

